# Roadmap

This roadmap details our goals and expectations for the project and how we intent do meet them. 

## [1 - Vocabulary Management [04-05-2023]]
Allow users to input and store vocabulary words along with their translations, pronunciation, and
examples of usage. Organize words into categories, such as topic, difficulty, or part of speech.

- Users should be able to input vocabulary into a dictionary storing it in both their native and target language(s).
- This vocabulary should be permanently stored from session to session, with the ability to delete entries at the users request.
	- Store each word in a custom 'word' class object with the following parameters:
		- word (str)
		- language (str)
		- defintion 
		- unique identifier(?) 
		- grammatical information (list of tuples of strings) e.g. [(part of speech: noun), (gender, m)] or dictionary 
		- pronunciation (either str (IPA), or numpy array (sound))
		- Difficulty (Str, entry, intermediate, or advanced)
		- Topic (Str)
		- Accuracy (float) 1 = 100% 0 = 0% (this comes later from quiz results not from direct user imput)
		- this should also handle missing data (either by skipping it or setting a default)

	- Store these objects in a csv file.
	- Then, separately create a dictionary for the desired target language which conists of the 'word' objects stored. i.e. [Word(native): Word(target)]

- Decide how to implement Pronunciation guides:
	- Option 1 is to include pronunciation in IPA form but this would require users to either know IPA, or to link to the internet to input the IPA pronunciation automatically - this may limit the supported languages
	- Option 2 is to store the information as a sound file generated by the user, but not ideal as their stored pronuncation would not be that of a native speaker. 
	- Option 3 (most basic) - implement romanised version of words if they are in languages which use other writing systems (e.g., Russian, Arabic, Japanese, etc.) as a guide to pronunciation. This could be implemented alongside other systems also. Users could also use this to just spell words phonetically 

### Timeline for Milestone 1 [04-05-2023]
- 1. Set up a github for the project. [24-04-2023]
- 2. Program object classes and functionals related to them [26-04-2023]
- 3. Set up directories for dependencies for storing data accross sessions [28-04-2023]
- 4. Implement a workable user imput system that can be adapted to add new features [30-04-2023]
- 5. Decide upon and implement phonetic system [02-04-2023]

## [2 - Vocabulary Quiz and Practice [11-05-2023]]

Generate quizzes or practice exercises for users based on their stored vocabulary words. Provide
immediate feedback on user responses and track their progress over time.

- implement extra tag on each word which will be a 'familiarity score' based on how well user does on that word for each quiz
	- this could be 2 scores, one for translating native -> target language and another for target -> native language. 
- Give options for users to quiz themselves based on topic, familiarity, or randomly
- store user progress for each topic as well as each word in a csv which can be later called upon
### Timeline for Milestone 2 [11-05-2023]
- to be decided.

## [3 - Data Visualization and Progress Analysis [18-05-2023]]

Provide users with visualizations of their learning progress, such as the number of words learned,
accuracy in quizzes, or progress in specific categories. Allow users to analyze their strengths and
weaknesses to inform future study sessions.
- Create a tab in the user interface to show the visualisations 
- Allow users to visualise their progress in different categories (such as topic, difficulty level, part of speech etc.)
- This can be done by plotting the 'familiarity' score of each word with said tag
	- we could also plot familiarity for native -> target and targer -> native on top of eachother on the same plot. 
### Timeline for Milestone 3 [18-05-2023]
- to be decided.